47) Ernst Cassirer (1874-1945) – Humans as symbols makers
A German-Jewish philosopher, who left for the USA after the rise of the Nazis. In his AN ESSAY ON MAN (1944) he argues that the human capacity to create symbols is central to culture and human life.
The human being lives in a symbolic universe. Language, myth, art, and religion are parts of this universe. They are the various threads which weave the symbolic net, the tangled web of human experience. All human progress in thought and experience is based on refining and strengthening this net.
No longer can the human being confront reality immediately; he cannot see it face to face. Physical reality seems to recede the more human symbolic activity advances. Instead of dealing with the things themselves, the human being is, in a sense, constantly conversing with himself. He has enveloped himself so much in linguistic forms, in artistic images, in mythical symbols or religious rites that he cannot see or know anything except through this artificial medium.
46) Giacomo Leopardi (1798-1837) – Boredom
An Italian philosopher and major poet. The following is from his book THOUGHTS (1837), a collection of short passages which are often critical and dark.
Boredom is in some ways the most sublime human feeling. Not being able to be satisfied with any earthly thing or, so to speak, with the whole earth; considering the immeasurable extent of space, the number and the wonderful size of the worlds, and finding that everything is small and petty in comparison with the capacity of one’s own mind; picturing to oneself the infinite number of worlds, and the infinite universe, and feeling that the soul and our desire must be still greater than such a universe; always accusing things of insufficiency and nothingness; and suffering huge lack and emptiness, and therefore boredom – all this seems to me the greatest sign of grandeur and nobility, which there is in human nature. And so, boredom is seldom seen in persons of no account, and very seldom or never in other creatures.
45) Gabriel Marcel (1889-1973) – Myself as a gift
French existentialist philosopher, playwright, and music critic. Here he argues against the importance of my self (ego). I should treat my personality as something I received as a gift, not as my own great achievement. (“Ego and its relation to others,” 1941)
Maybe there is no more fatal error than that which conceives of the ego as the secret home of originality. … The best part of my personality does not belong to me. I am in no sense the owner, only the trustee. … If I consider myself as the guardians of my gifts, responsible for their fruitfulness – that is to say, if I recognize in them a call, or perhaps a question to which I must respond – it will not occur to me to be proud about them, and to parade them before an audience, which (as I said before) really means before myself.
Indeed, if we think about it, there is nothing in me that cannot or should not be regarded as a gift. It is pure fiction to imagine a pre-existent self to whom those gifts were given thanks to certain rights that I have, or as a reward for my previous merits.
44) Johann Gottfried Herder (1744-1803) – Between two worlds An influential German philosopher. In his OUTLINES OF A PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY OF HUMANITY (1803) he argues that humans live in two realms: the material world of the animal, and the spiritual world of ideals.
The curious inconsistency of the human condition becomes clear: As an animal, the human being tends to the earth, and is attached to it as his dwelling place. As a human being, he has within him the seeds of immortality, which require to be planted in another soil. As an animal, he can satisfy his wants, and people who are content with this feel themselves sufficiently happy here below; but those who seek a nobler purpose find everything around them imperfect and incomplete. What is most noble is never accomplished upon the earth, what is most pure is rarely stable and long-lasting. This arena is only a place of exercise and trial for the powers of our hearts and minds. The history of the human species – including what it has attempted and what has happened to it, the efforts it has made and the revolutions it has undergone – proves this sufficiently.
43) Sophie de Condorcet (1764-1882) – Noble love
A French writer and hostess of an intellectual salon in Paris. The following is adapted from her philosophical book LETTERS ON SYMPATHY (1798).
 A person who is worthy of esteem is happy to esteem others. His heart is easily moved by the mere thought of a good action, and it is tied and attached to anybody he thinks can perform such an action. He is happy to be with him, and their brotherhood of virtue creates between them freedom and equality, which they may experience tenderly like the tenderness between the closest blood and natural relatives.
[…] It is so true that the pleasure we find in loving comes (at least in the case of friendship), to a large extent, from our pleasure of making people happy through our affections, so that only generous souls can love. Souls that lack magnanimity or nobility, or that have been corrupted by selfishness, might want to be loved and might seek love’s delight and fruits, but only generous hearts who can be touched by the happiness of others really know how to love.
42) Blaise Pascal (1623-1662) – The dignity of thought
An influential French philosopher, mathematician and physicist. The following is from his famous PENSÉES (1670).
Man is but a reed, the most feeble thing in nature; but he is a thinking reed. The entire universe need not arm itself to crush him. A vapor, a drop of water suffices to kill him. But, if the universe were to crush him, man would still be more noble than that which killed him, because he knows that he dies and the advantage which the universe has over him; the universe knows nothing of this. All our dignity consists, then, in thought. By it, we must elevate ourselves, and not by space and time which we cannot fill. Let us endeavor, then, to think well; this is the principle of morality.
348. A thinking reed: It is not from space that I must seek my dignity, but from the government of my thought. I shall have no more if I possess worlds. By space the universe encompasses and swallows me up like an atom; by thought I comprehend the world.
