41) Joaquín Xirau Palau (1895-1945) – The metaphysics of crisis
A Spanish philosopher. For him, reality is a dynamic movement towards fulfillment. Philosophy explores ways towards this fulfillment. The following is from his essay “Crisis” (1946).
The social and political crisis through which the world is passing has a metaphysical background that has been little noticed, or is wholly unknown to the great majority of people. It persists in the air that we breathe; its presence is so familiar that it is imperceptible. …
Modern life is chaos, not Cosmos. As such, it lacks a center, it is meaningless, aimless. The ancient world was an organism. And, as in every organism, each part served the whole, and the whole gave service to the parts. … The living body of reality had its foundation in the material realm, and its culmination was in the splendor of the spirit. … [But now] the organism splits and disappears. We are left only [with the duality of] matter and spirit, the real and the ideal. The glory of the world is reduced to either one or the other. Thus transformed into a thin thread of ideas or an endless flux of causes and effects, the world becomes an illusion. And through idealism and materialization, mathematical calculus or atomic movement, it tends to dissolve into nothingness.
40) Emil Cioran (1911-1995) – The desire to be nothing
A Romanian-born thinker who is known for his philosophical pessimism. The following is from his major book THE TROUBLE WITH BEING BORN (1973), which is a collection of short fragments.
* Once the shutters are closed, I stretch out in the dark. The outer world, a fading murmur, dissolves. All that is left is myself and … there’s the rub. Hermits have spent their lives in dialogue with what was most hidden within them. If only, following their example, I could give myself up to that extreme exercise, in which one unites with the intimacy of one’s own being! It is this self-interview, this inward transition which matters, and which has no value unless continually renewed, so that the self is finally absorbed by its essential version.
* The faint light in each of us which dates back to before our birth, to before all births, is what must be protected if we want to rejoin that remote glory from which we shall never know why we were separated.
* I have never known a single sensation of fulfillment, of true happiness, without thinking that it was the moment when – now or never – I should disappear for good.
39) Juan Bautista Alberdi (1810–1884) – Philosophy as Freedom
An Argentinian thinker, political theorist, and diplomat who influenced the Argentinian Constitution of 1853. For him, freedom is the purpose of humanity, and we can achieve it only if philosophy encompasses all aspects of our lives. From his book A PRELIMINARY FRAGMENT OF THE STUDY OF LAW (1837).
Since philosophy is the denial of all authority other than the authority of reason, philosophy is the mother of all emancipation, of all freedom, of all social progress. … There is only one freedom – that of reason, which has as many phases as there are elements in the human spirit. So when all these freedoms, or phases of rational freedom, do not exist at the same time, it can be said that no freedom properly exists. … To be free is not merely to act according to reason, but also to think according to reason, to believe according to reason, to write according to reason, to see according to reason… If, then, we want to be free, let us first be worthy of it. Freedom does not come in a flash. It is the slow birth of civilization. Freedom is not the conquest of a day; it is one of the purposes of humanity, a purpose that it will never achieve except relatively.
38) Augustine (354-430 AD) – The desire for wisdom
Augustine of Hippo was a major philosopher and a Catholic saint. His influence on Catholic thought and on medieval philosophy has been tremendous. The following is adapted from his book ON FREE CHOICE OF THE WILL (De libero arbitrio), Part 2.
Just as it is agreed that we all wish to be happy, so too it is agreed that we all wish to be wise, because who is happy without wisdom? Because nobody is satisfied without the supreme good which is discovered and possessed in the truth which we call wisdom.
Even before we are happy, the idea of happiness is impressed on our mind. This is how we know, and can assert confidently and with no doubt whatsoever, that we wish to be happy. Similarly, even before we are wise, the notion of wisdom is stamped on our mind. That is why each of us, if asked whether he wants to be wise, replies without a shadow of doubt that he does. … Because if your mind was not somehow aware of what wisdom is, you would never know that you desire to be wise, or that you should desire to be wise – and neither of them, I think, you will deny.
37) Søren Kierkegaard (1813-1855) – Subjectivity is Truth
Danish philosopher, father of existentialism. His central question is: What does it mean to live authentically, to really “exist” as a human being? His answer: to live “subjectively” – with one’s entire being, with passion, commitment, faith. The following is adapted from his CONCLUDING UNSCIENTIFIC POSTSCRIPT (1846).
Only knowledge that relates to existence is essential knowledge. All knowledge which is not existential – which does not involve inward reflection – is really accidental knowledge. Its degree and scope are of no importance. … The highest point of inwardness in an existing person is passion, because passion corresponds to truth as a paradox [=unsupported by objective reason]. … By forgetting that we are existing subjects, we lose passion, and truth stops to be a paradox, but the knowing subject begins to lose his humanity and becomes fantastic.
… The objective accent is on WHAT is said; the subjective accent is on HOW it is said. … Only in subjectivity is there decision and commitment, so to seek it in objectivity is to be in error. The passion of infinity brings forth decisiveness, not its content. In this way, the subjective HOW and subjectivity are the truth.
36) Francis Herbert Bradley (1846-1924) – Harmony in the absolute
A British philosopher, influential in his lifetime but forgotten after his death. Inspired by Hegel, he posited an Absolute, where all of reality is united into a coherent whole, and where thought and being are one. The following is adapted from his APPEARANCE AND REALITY (1893).
We can find no province of the world so low that the Absolute does not inhabit it. Nowhere is there even a single fact so fragmentary and so poor that it does not matter to the universe. There is truth in every idea however false, there is reality in every existence however slight; and where we can point to reality or truth, there is the one undivided life of the Absolute. […] But on the other hand, Reality is not the sum of things. It is the unity in which all things, coming together, are transformed, although not equally. And in this unity, relations of separation and hostility are affirmed and absorbed. These relations, too, are harmonious in the Whole […] Extreme hostility implies a more intense relation, and this relation is part of the Whole and enriches its unity. The apparent disharmony and disturbance is overruled into harmony, and it is the condition of fuller and more individual development.
35) Simone de Beauvoir (1908-1986) – The value of freedom
A French existentialist philosopher, writer, and feminist. In THE ETHICS OF AMBIGUITY (1947) she argues that although no objective judgement can tell us the objective value of our action, what matters is that we are acting out of our freedom.
Regardless of the incredible dimensions of the world around us, the density of our ignorance, the risks of catastrophes, and our weakness as individuals within the immense collectivity, the fact remains that we are absolutely free today if we choose to want our existence in its finiteness, a finiteness which is open to the infinite. And in fact, any person who has known real loves, real revolts, real desires, and real will, knows quite well that he does not need any external guarantee in order to be sure of his goals. His certainty in them comes from his own drive.
There is a very old saying which goes: “Do what you must, whatever happens.” … If each person did what he must, existence would be saved in each person without any need to dream about a paradise where everything would be reconciled with death.
34) Simone Weil (1909-1943) – To accept the void
A French spiritual philosopher. Her book GRAVITY AND GRACE (1940-2) tells us that we don’t have the powers to resist our natural desires – we need a void (like a “hole”) in our psychology, where supernatural grace can enter and act.
Like a gas, the soul tends to fill the entire space that is given to it. A gas that contracts and leaves a vacuum – this is contrary to the law of entropy. … Not to exercise all the power which you have is to have a void. This is contrary to all the laws of nature. Only grace can do it.
… To accept a void in ourselves is supernatural. Where is the energy for an act which has nothing that counterbalances it? The energy has to come from elsewhere. Yet, first something must be torn, something desperate has to take place, the void must be created.
… The human being escapes from the laws of this world only in lightning flashes. Moments when everything stands still, instants of contemplation, of pure intuition, of mental void, of acceptance of the moral void. It is through such instants that he is capable of the supernatural.
