33) Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831) – Spirit is freedom
A major German philosopher. For him, the history of the world is the history of the Spirit, which went through several historical stages to actualize its potential knowledge and self-consciousness. The following is from his LECTURES ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY (1837).
Just as the essence of matter is gravity, so, in contrast, we may affirm that the essence of Spirit is Freedom. Everybody will easily agree that Spirit also has, among other properties, Freedom; but philosophy teaches that all the qualities of Spirit exist only through Freedom; that all these qualities are only means for attaining Freedom; that all of them seek and produce this and only this. It is a result of speculative philosophy that freedom is the only truth of Spirit.
Matter possesses gravity because of its tendency toward a central point. It is essentially composite – consisting of parts that exclude each other. It seeks its unity … Spirit, in contrast, may be defined as that which has its center in itself. It does not have a unity outside itself, but it has already found it; it exists in and with itself. Matter has its essence out of itself; Spirit has self-contained existence.
32) Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762–1814) – The voice of conscience
A major German philosopher. In his book THE VOCATION OF MAN (1800) he finds the foundation not in reason (like Descartes’ “I think therefore I am”), but in the voice of moral conscience. Through faith in this voice, I accept that the world is real, and that my vocation is to obey this higher call. (Read more on Agora [https://philopractice.org/web])
“Your vocation is not just to know, but according to your knowledge to act!” — this is what I hear in the innermost depths of my soul, as soon as I recollect myself for a moment, and reflect upon myself. “You are here not for idle contemplation of yourself, not for brooding over your experiences — no, you are here for action. Your worth is determined by your action, and only your action.”
… This voice of my conscience announces to me precisely what I must do and what I should not do in every particular situation of life. It accompanies me, if I only listen to it with attention, through all the events of my life … My life stops being an empty play without truth or significance. There is something that must absolutely be done for its own sake alone. What conscience demands of me in this particular situation of life is mine to do, and this is why I am here.
31) Boethius of Dacia (13th Century) – The pursuit of wisdom
A Danish philosopher who taught at the University of Paris. He argued that philosophy, as the contemplation of truth and virtue, is the highest human activity, and should guide us independently of religion – for which he was persecuted by the Church. The following is adopted from his book ON THE SUPREME GOOD.
… All the operations of man’s lower powers are for the sake of the operations of his higher power, the intellect. And if, among the operations of the intellective powers, there is one which is best and most perfect, then all the other powers naturally exist for its sake. When a person performs such an operation, he enjoys the highest state possible for a human being. Such persons are the philosophers, who spend their lives in the pursuit of wisdom. Therefore, all the powers found in the philosopher operate according to the natural order – the earlier for the sake of the later, the lower for the sake of the higher and more perfect.

… Since in the philosopher, all the powers are for the sake of the highest power and highest action, which is contemplation of truth and delight in truth, and above all the first truth, therefore philosophers’ desire to know will never be satisfied until they know the uncreated being [=eternal being]. 30) Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778) – Virtue, freedom, love
A French philosopher who influenced profoundly modern political and social thought. His philosophy of education is presented in his book EMILE (1762), about an imaginary educator who educates the boy Emile. Here Emile, already a young adult, falls in love, and the educator encourages him to follow his love, but also be in control of it.
My son, there is no happiness without courage, nor virtue without a struggle. The word “virtue” is derived from a word signifying strength, and strength is the foundation of all virtue. Virtue is the heritage of a creature who is weak by nature but strong by will. … What is meant by a virtuous man? He who can conquer his loves, because then he follows his reason, his conscience; he does his duty; he is his own master and nothing can divert him from the right way. So far you have had only the semblance of liberty, the insecure liberty of the slave who has not received his orders. Now is the time for real freedom. Learn to be your own master; control your heart, my Emile, and you will be virtuous. …
This is your first passion [love]. Perhaps it is the only passion worthy of you. If you can control it like a man, it will be the last; you will be master of all the rest, and you will obey nothing but the passion for virtue. 29) Aldous Huxley (1894-1963) – The self as an island
An influential English thinker and writer. The following is slightly simplified from his book THE DOORS OF PERCEPTION (1954), where he tells about his experiences with the drug mescaline, and reflects on their philosophical implications.
We live together, we act on, and react to one another; but always and in all circumstances we are by ourselves. The martyrs go hand in hand into the arena; they are crucified alone. The lovers, embraced, desperately try to fuse their insulated ecstasies into a single self-transcendence; in vain. By its very nature, every embodied spirit is doomed to suffer and enjoy in solitude. Sensations, feelings, insights, fancies – all these are private and incommunicable, except through symbols and at second hand. We can collect information about experiences, but never the experiences themselves. From family to nation, every human group is a society of island universes.
Most island universes are sufficiently similar to permit understanding through inference, or even mutual empathy… To see ourselves as others see us, that is a most valuable gift. Not less important is the capacity to see others as they see themselves. But what if these others belong to a different species and inhabit a radically alien universe? 28) John Sullivan Dwight (1813-1893) – Music is of unity
An American thinker and music critic of the American Transcendentalist movement (which also included Emerson and Thoreau). The following is adapted from his essay “Music” (1849), which describes music as a universal languages through which we communicate with the unity of the universe.
The native impulses of the soul … when considered in their essence and original undistorted tendency, are divinely implanted loves. Union, harmony of some sort, is their very life. To meet, to unite, to blend by methods complex and quick, is their whole business and effort through eternity. … Through these (how else?) the hearts of the human race would be woven into one mutually conscious, undivided whole, one living temple not too narrow, nor too fragmentary for receiving the Spirit of Good.
Isn’t this announced in music, the natural language of these passions, which cannot express corruption nor any evil feeling, without ceasing to be music; which has no tone for any bad passion, and whatever it expresses translates into harmony and beauty? … Because music cannot cease to be harmony, cannot cease to symbolize the sacred relationship of each one to all, cannot contract a stain, any more than the sunbeam which shines into all corners.
27) Jean Paul Sartre (1905-1980) – Existence before essence

An influential French existentialist philosopher, political activist, and novelist. For him, human consciousness is radically free – there is no fixed human nature that determines our behaviors, thoughts, or emotions. In this sense we create ourselves every moment.
What do we mean by saying that EXISTENCE PRECEDES ESSENCE? We mean that the human being first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world – and defines himself afterwards. The human being, as seen by the existentialist, cannot be defined because at first he is nothing. He will not be anything until later, and then he will be what he makes of himself.
… What we mean to say is that the human being has a greater dignity than a stone or a table. Because he first of all exists – he is something which pushes itself towards a future, and he is aware that this is what he is doing. A human being is, indeed, a project which has a subjective life, instead of being a kind of moss, or a fungus or a cauliflower. Before he project himself, nothing exists; not even in the heaven of intelligence: A human being will only attain existence when he is what he decides to be.
26) Erich Fromm (1900-1980) – The art of loving
A German-born Jewish psychologist and philosopher who worked in Mexico, USA, and Switzerland. His book THE ART OF LOVING (1956) suggests that true love – which is rare in our society – does not center on one’s own personal needs, but is an attitude of active giving to the world.
Love is not primarily a relationship to a specific person. It is an attitude, an orientation of character which determines the relatedness of a person to the world as a whole, not toward one “object” of love. If a person loves only one other person and is indifferent to the rest of his fellow human beings, his love is not love but a symbiotic attachment, or an enlarged egotism. … [When] one does not see that love is an activity, a power of the soul, one believes that it is only necessary to find the right object – and everything will work by itself afterwards. …
If I truly love one person, I love all persons, I love the world, I love life. If I can say to somebody else, “I love you,” I must be able to say “I love in you everybody, I love through you the world, I love in you also myself.” 25) Giacomo Leopardi (1798-1837) – Levels of self-knowledge

A major Italian thinker and poet who died at the age of 39. The following is from his book THOUGHTS (Pensieri, 1837), a collection of fragments about humanity, which are often pessimistic and dark.

No one becomes a man (or woman) before he has had considerable experience of himself which reveals himself to himself, and determines his opinion of himself, and thus determines his destiny and his condition in life. Before this great experience, nobody in the world is much more than a child…
However, if this experience does occur … then he knows from experience the nature of the passions, he knows his own nature and temperament, he has a sense of his own abilities and strengths. And by now, he can judge himself and what he must hope for or despair of from himself, and what place he is probably destined to have in the world.

In short, life appears different to his eyes, since it has changed for him from a thing heard to a thing seen, from something imagined to something real, and he feels that he is in the middle of it, perhaps not happier but more powerful than before, in other words more inclined to make good use of himself and of others. 24) Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900) – The self-creator
A German thinker, a major modern philosopher. The following is from the section “On the way of the creator” from THUS SPOKE ZARATHUSTRA (1883). Here Nietzsche’s Zarathustra envisions the “creator” who rejects the superficial values of society and creates new values for himself himself (his own “laws” or “evil and good”), living them fully and passionately. This makes his life noble and meaningful, but lonely and difficult. (Read more on Agora [https://philopractice.org/web])
You call yourself free? I want to hear your dominating thought, not to hear that you have escaped from a yoke. Are you one of those who has the RIGHT to escape from a yoke? Some people threw away their last value when they threw away their servitude.
Free FROM what? That doesn’t matter to Zarathustra! But your eyes should tell me brightly: Free FOR what? Can you give yourself your own evil and your own good, and place your own will above yourself as a law? Can you be your own judge and punisher of your law? It is terrible to be alone with the judge and punisher of one’s own law. That is how a star is thrown out into the void and into the icy breath of solitude.
23) Maurice Maeterlinck (1862-1949) – The deeper life
A Belgian playwright, poet, and Nobel Prize laureate in literature. He was not an academic philosopher, but wrote many short essays about life. The following is adapted from the essay “The Deeper Life” from his book THE TREASURE OF THE HUMBLE (1897).
Each person has to search for his own special ability for a higher life in the midst of the humble and inescapable reality of daily existence. There can be no nobler aim in life than this. It is only through our communications with the infinite that we can be distinguished from each other. If the hero is greater than the wretch who walks by his side, it is because at a certain moment of his existence he became more fully conscious of one of these communications. …
It is within our power to increase these communications. In the life of every person there was a day when the heavens opened by themselves, and this moment is almost always the birth of his true spiritual personality. Certainly, this moment forms our invisible, eternal features that we reveal (although we don’t know it) to angels and to souls. But with most people it is only chance that caused the heavens to open. 22) Plotinus (204-270 AD) – Spiritual beauty

A major Neo-Platonist philosopher who lived in late antiquity, mostly in Rome. The following is from his ENNEAD 1, Tractate 6: “Beauty.” 
There are beauties that are more fundamental and high than the beauty of material objects. In the world of the senses we no longer know them, but the soul, which does not rely on sense-organs, sees them and announces them. We must ascend to the vision of these beauties, and leave the senses in their low place.
… Such a vision is only for those who see with the sight of the Soul. And when they experience this vision, they rejoice, and they are filled with joy and with agitation that is deeper than anything else, because now they are moving in the realm of truth. This is the spirit which beauty always inspires, wonderment and a delicious agitation, longing and love and a delightful trembling. …
Therefore we must ascend again towards the Good, which is what every soul desires. Anyone who has seen it, knows what I mean when I say that it is beautiful. 21) Maria Zambrano (1904-1991) – The irrational light
A poetic Spanish philosopher who believed in the power of irrational states of mind, such as dream and delirium. The following is from her book CLEARINGS IN THE FOREST (1977). Here she tells us that we should close our eyes (“sleep”) to the sharp violent light of reason, and “wake up” in the irrational “underworld,” where a softer light of deeper understanding will welcome us. (Read more on Agora [https://philopractice.org/web])
One must fall asleep above in the light. One must be awake below in the intra-terrestrial, intra-corporal darkness of the various bodies which terrestrial man inhabits: that of the earth, of the universe, of his own.
Down there in “the depths,” in the underworlds, the heart watches, is kept awake, is reawakened within itself.
Up above, in the light, the heart abandons itself, surrenders. It collects itself. It finally falls asleep no longer in pain. In the welcoming light where no violence is suffered, one has arrived to that light without forcing any door and even without opening it, without having passed through lintels of light and shadow, without effort and protection. 20) Friedrich Schiller (1759-1805) – The sublime
A German philosopher, poet, and major playwright. The following is adapted from his essay ON THE SUBLIME (1801). For him, beauty follows order and reason, while the sublime takes us beyond reason, to a higher realm of freedom.
There are two capacities which nature gave us as companions throughout life. … In the first we recognize the feeling of the beautiful, in the second the feeling of the sublime. … With beauty we feel ourselves free, because our senses are in harmony with the laws of reason. With the sublime we feel ourselves free, because our senses have no influence on the realm of reason, because the spirit acts as if it stands only under its own laws
The feeling of the sublime is a mixed feeling. It is a combination of anxiety, which expresses itself in its highest degree as a shudder, and of joy, which can rise to ecstasy. And although it is not precisely pleasure, delicate souls generally prefer it to every pleasure. … We sense through the feeling of the sublime that our spiritual nature is not necessarily determined by the state of our senses; that the laws of nature are not necessarily our laws; and that we have in us an autonomous principle, independent of all sensuous impressions. 19) Aristotle (384–322 BC) – Happiness and virtue

A major ancient philosopher, born in Macedonia, studied with Plato, and tutored Alexander the Great. In Book I of his NICOMACHEAN ETHICS he discusses happiness (“Eudaimonia,” or flourishing):
Pleasure belongs to the soul, and pleasure for each person is about what he is a lover of: Horses for horse-lovers, and plays for theater-lovers, and in the same way justice is pleasant for a person who loves justice. And, in general, things that conform with virtue are pleasant for those who love virtue.
Now, the pleasures of most people are in conflict with each other, because they are not pleasant by their nature. But the lovers of goodness take pleasure in things that are pleasant by their nature. Such are always actions in conformity to virtue, so they are pleasant in themselves to lovers of goodness. The life of these people does not need extra pleasure as an additional attraction, because it contains its pleasure in itself…
But if so, then virtuous actions must be pleasant in themselves. But they are also good and noble. And they are good and noble in the highest degree, since the good person makes good judgements about these things. Happiness, then, is the best, noblest, and most pleasant thing in the world.
